welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
business
[Music]
welcome back to a fresh episode of sam's
business growth show excited today to be
joined by rick
denley rick is self-proclaimed
transformational
growth coach he's got 25 years in
leading multinational
organizations his backgrounds in
transforming sales growth strategies
execution and team building
is worked with small to large
organizations including creating winning
sales processes
focused on consultative and relationship
based sales approach he's also a number
one bestseller for the book reinvent
yourself that
was published back in april rick a very
warm welcome sir how are you doing
excellent sam thank you thank you for
having me on your show
looking forward to it man so the focus
for today
is going to be how we can create a
winning repeatable
sales process which should be pretty
valuable to be fair for
anyone um anyone in business anyone in
sales anyone that's that wants to drive
a bit more revenue and have a repeatable
process that they can keep firing up
day after day absolutely before we get
to that rick
please tell us a quick snapshot on your
good self for anyone that does not know
rick dently
what are you about what business are you
into where are you from
well i appreciate your introduction that
shared a lot sam to start with
yeah i spent a lot of times in the
corporate world leading
sales forces and marketing groups for
multinational organizations then about
three
four years ago decided to move out of
that venue
on my own looking to work with more
people to help them be their very best
to grow their organizations especially
small to medium-sized organizations and
entrepreneurs
uh bringing to them a little bit of the
the the corporate
knowledge and best practices from around
the world without all the bureaucracy
and red tape so that's what i've been
doing recently
and you know it's been a lot of fun get
out on my own reinvent myself
make changes with organizations as well
and
also you know given me a bit of time to
free up and work
as a philanthropist as well as you know
from some of the things that you see
here
i do some amateur boxing as well to help
fight and bring awareness to cancer so
that's a little bit about what i've been
doing right now
but my passion lies in making sure that
people and organizations
punch through their growth ceiling to be
the best they can be love that man
love that love that bit of boxing and
great to hear you doing stuff for a good
cause man
awesome thank you good on you so
rick i think the first topic we're going
to chat about was um obviously
everyone knows time times are a bit
tougher now things some business is
pretty bleak for for many organizations
yeah um
so i think you you're going to share
some stuff with us about how businesses
can pivot properly
how they can transform things when when
everything that's going on right now
yeah absolutely thanks sam you know as
leaders as consultants advisors
we really need to collaborate right now
with each other that's huge stop the
competition between
each other and collaborate like you and
i are doing here today
you know the nearly instantaneous
economic recession triggered by this
pandemic has really wreaked havoc on
small
and large organizations as a whole
nobody's immune to this one
and everybody talks about the fact that
okay we have to pivot our business
and you know what does that mean to
pivot it pivoting is really a lateral
move
okay that creates enough value to your
customers for your organization to share
to them there's a couple keys to
pivoting and i just want to share those
with you now
that i've been speaking to my group on
my masterminds my monthly masterminds
for organizations
three main things when we look at
pivoting okay must align your firm with
one or more of the long-term trends
that you've created or intensified by
the pandemic
you have to be aware of it all right we
have to use that term we have to know
that we have to lead with empathy now
that's very very important for us second
thing
it must be a lateral move as i mentioned
earlier it must be an extension in your
firm's existing capabilities
cementing not undermining your strategic
intent okay that's important don't go
change everything that you do
you're still bringing value you just
have to change how you do it
thirdly must offer a sustainable path to
profitability
one that preserves and enhances your
brand value in the mind of your clients
so those three things are very
key so that your business can continue
to perform so when people talk about
pivots keep those three main things in
mind
got it and rick in your opinion everyone
has their own idea of what actually
bringing value to the table is
could you perhaps give us some tangible
examples on us it's quite tricky without
nailing down a certain business but
maybe
you could talk about your own business
or some of your clients businesses
of where they're bringing value to
either their existing customers or
prospective clients that they're trying
to bring on as
as customers right and ways that they're
standing out in ways they're actually
presenting what we call value
yeah that's very good and it's trickier
to do now as you mentioned sam because
everything's virtual
and we have to very we have to
understand
very well how to approach things
virtually i'm going to get into the
sales process piece in a minute but
um you know when you look at that
bringing clients
value we have to remember that really
clients are only looking for a few
things they're looking to save time
money
or to solve an issue and you have to
determine what that is fairly quickly
for them
and the interesting part and i want
people to realize is that and i've asked
my organizations that i work with to do
this
go back and revisit your clients
and ask those key questions right now
because everything has changed for
everybody
we can't assume that the same thing we
did six seven months ago for our clients
is where they're at now the issues that
we're helping them solve the solutions
that we create
are not the same as they were back then
so don't assume that they are
go through that question and again and
really show
intent to understand your clients then
and only then can you see how you can
bring them value
and it's at that point that the value
will come out
got it so we're talking about more
thorough deep questioning
go back to square one i don't care if
you've done business with these
companies for 30 years
everything has changed now there's not
any organization or person on the planet
that hasn't been impacted
in the last six months so let's revisit
that and make sure
that we're servicing our clients
correctly got it
got it now that that makes sense and i
think that's one of the worst things we
can do rick in business always assuming
that we think we know what the situation
is or we we assume that
we know where a client wants to get to
from a or b
or for example when i've i've had this
in the past where i've been referred
business
so it might be a client that was really
happy with the job they passed this on a
web project or a digital marketing
project and i just assumed the client
wanted to
maybe generate more leads from their
website or something like that and it
turns out they wanted to do something
completely different so that's
like you say sometimes you skip steps
because you assume when really you
should just take it from from scratch
ask all the questions you need to know
yeah and absolutely
get the right objective cool man okay so
let's let's move this forward i mean
let's get to some of the juicy parts of
this conversation how can
people i think you've got some
actionable tips you can show us on how
people how businesses
can generate more revenue um from from
today
i do and then i'll parlay that into that
sales process piece that we did let's
just some quick hits
that i share with organizations and we
we touched on the first one here
you know find a fresh perspective find
something a little bit different people
do not want the same old right now
because nothing's the same
right everything has changed so you and
your organization and its offerings
need to change as well if your
organization big or small has not
aligned its sales and marketing teams
yet you need to
all right because these things need to
be together
from the front end of your marketing
digital marketing whatever type
marketing that you're doing
to your sales force has to be a seamless
integration from the time that you get
leads and prospects right on through to
the closing so make sure you align those
third item i want to talk about is get
creative
with new business solutions you need to
bring something new even myself on my
end
i needed to pivot move my business
laterally and move everything
online on my coaching that i used to do
in person
that had to change for me i had to put
my entire offering online and make it
accessible
to all of my clients so that was a move
that i had to do
and in doing so i actually created some
new solutions for them as well based on
the times
one of my largest sellers right now that
i do on a monthly basis
is my virtual selling course which of
course is done virtually but i had to
create that
and it's done online so that was a new
creative offering for
my clientele my existing clientele and
it attracted
new business as well revisit old leads
those leads that you thought that you'd
never do business with that organization
there were reasons for it remember
everything's changed now
and their organization has changed as
well revisit those now
with your new creative offerings then
finally
don't turn your back on your existing
clients remember the 80
20 rule that 80 percent of our business
is coming from 20 percent of our clients
focus on those 20
percent and make sure that you're
selling as deep and wide and bringing
them as much value as you can with all
your product offerings
that's very important as well so those
are five quick hits for us sam
i like it so let's jump into a couple of
those rick um
i like the the revisiting old leads is
like you say it sometimes
we can get caught up um which will bring
us on to your final point but
yeah sometimes we can forget about the
oldies we can give them a few calls give
them a few emails try to reach out to
them on linkedin or whether they're
online in terms of social
and then perhaps we haven't reached them
after a couple weeks we've put them on
the back burner
and we've completely forgotten about
them so a few months down the line we
don't know what they've done they might
have gone with another vendor or they
might still have the same problem they
originally approached us with
when they needed attack so if you've got
any examples of good ways to
to reach out to leads that have perhaps
gone quiet or we've forgotten about
we've got lost in our crm
and how we can spark up a fire and get
them chatting again
yeah definitely you want something to be
new and exciting for them
and that would be the approach that i'd
take i said geez i remember when we
spoke the last time
you mentioned about wanting this side or
the other thing and maybe we didn't have
the right fit
we have two or three new offerings and
one of these i believe would be
appropriate for you
and that's the type of approach you want
to take something new i'm not coming
back at you like i did six seven months
ago
we've reinvented ourselves we have new
offerings and from what i spoke on the
last time and listen to what you said
i think this one's going to be the right
fit for you could i have 15 minutes of
your time to discuss that
and that's you want that call to action
as well bring them on board somehow
but i would say have something shiny
have something new
that might fit what you heard them
saying
before got that got it bring them a
fresh fresh idea
i like it thank you you bet nice okay
and in terms of um existing clients
again similar things sometimes i'm sure
myself i've been guilty many times
new inquiries are coming in perhaps
there's projects we need to deliver to
deadlines
and yes we perhaps aren't as attentive
to our existing customers
as we maybe should be um when like you
say it's it's
far more expensive to acquire new
customers than it is to obviously look
after
existing as we all know right so what
are some ways rick that we can make sure
we're servicing
our existing clients as best as we can
be and
we're also getting as much um without
squeezing them too hard but getting a
good bang for about
obviously keeping them on board keeping
them retained and also getting revenue
out of our existing customers
yeah it's it's it's too common too easy
to forget that our existing clients
do have choices and they could go
elsewhere and as you said seven to eight
times the energy and expense to get a
new client then keep an existing one
so make sure you keep your you know
finger on the pulse one thing that's not
too old school to do now and you can do
it digitally of course
is create a little survey for your
existing clients
a five question survey that you fire
over to the key decision makers and make
sure that you're on track
and if you're not those red flags will
come up and then you can address them
and that's fairly important as well the
other thing that you can do is just
ask very good open-ended questions to
them
that will generate a discussion and let
you know if you're missing the mark
including geez you know what has changed
in your organization that maybe we need
to respond to
is there anything we can be doing
differently and that that can be in a
survey form
it can be in a phone call form however
you want to do it
but get out reach out and hit those
touch points and go back to square one
in asking those probing qualifying
questions
which you should have nailed down in
what i want to talk about now that
repeatable winning
sales process definitely no i love that
point rick just just asking
what's going on right now where do you
want to get to what kind of challenges
have you got and really
personalizing it and ensuring that you
actually care about what's important to
you
don't assume that you know what it is
it's not the same as it was six months
ago i guarantee you
awesome dude all right let's let's jump
into the the process because that's
gonna be really useful
on on how we can actually yeah drive
sales generate revenue
and do it consistently more importantly
yeah one one of the main things that i
like organizations to do whether they're
small or large here's an interesting
fact for you
why is it that over 90 percent of
franchises are successful
and over half of entrepreneur startups
fail within three years
process repeatable winning process
that's the difference
so in sales enablement program that i
like to come in and put in place in
organizations
we talk about the importance of this
winning process
and you have to have it you have to have
clear objectives
tasks and gates to get past as you go
from
prospecting right through to closing
and it's very unique to your
organization in your industry and this
is what we need to build for you
you want a repeatable winning sales
process for many reasons
number one you want consistent
performance to all your clients
you want to give the right tools and
this is a tool for your sales group your
sales people your sales and marketing
organization
you want to be sure everybody has the
same tools
right imagine if we were to give
some individuals a task of starting a
fire and i gave some individuals some
rocks and some sticks to rub together
and then i gave other people a flame
thrower who's going to be better at it
right obviously the person with the
better tools make sure
all your sales team has the same tools
and that includes a winning repeatable
sales process
and within that make sure that they have
qualification questions that we just
spoke about
that they have the negotiation skills
and the closing skills
necessary to be successful that type of
professional approach will be
appreciated by your clientele as well
so putting in place and creating your
unique winning repeatable
sales process is one of the most
important things you can do
now and into the future i completely
agree
um and if we could rick if we could
break that down a bit more and the tools
is a great
great point making sure everyone on your
team's got both the same
is armed with the same questions whether
yeah an initial discovery call
whether that's a demo or presentation or
whether that's actually
generating the business and ongoing
right and then like you say the software
so whether it's software to chat whether
it's zoom or skype or whatever you use
to actually generate meetings or whether
it's the writing the proposals the demos
the quotations whether it's
anything else that helps them in their
prospecting their account management and
so on so that's a really valid point
um and in terms of the is there an
actual process you follow to break it
down into a bit more of a
binary yeah broken down kind of
breadcrumb approach um
have you got a process that you follow
ie is it uh
initial prospecting call discovery cool
quote stage
follow-up stage and that kind of stuff
or is yours a bit different to the
traditional
methods that we see out there well you
know it's interesting you ask that and i
kid people especially
when i'm on stage and speaking when i
get the opportunity to or virtually as
well
and i start off with the fact that a
little known fact about me might be that
i'm a recovering engineer
so my first degree out of school was
actually engineering so i've got a
little bit of that analytical side to me
but it is something that we break down
into each of the sales
stages now the interesting part is that
it is very moldable to the organization
and whatever crm they're using because
that's a key tool
in any sales organization and sales
process and we dovetail that together
extremely well
so we put those things together and
those are just some of the tools that
we'll have
in each of the sales stages prospecting
qualifying
solution building negotiating and
closing
there are the right tools and tasks that
we require
in the sales process and we build those
based on the individual's
knowledge and capabilities the industry
specifics that there might be
and what the organizational goals are so
that's how we come in and do that now
how we do that is interesting as well
we do it through assessments of the
sales organization
right down to the individual level the
sales people will take an online
assessment to help us understand
where their strengths and areas of
development are
and then we go into looking after and
training in those areas as well so we're
improving the individual skill sets
as well as the overall umbrella of sales
process within the organization
those two things combined raise the
level
of professionalism and as i said too
your win ratios and other key
performance indicators
will improve in your organization the
offset there's a couple of offshoots of
this sam that are pretty cool too
the other one is that when you have
things like this in place you become an
employer that people want to come work
for
because you have what they need to make
them successful
so then you're attracting and retaining
top talent in the industry
and that's difficult to do nowadays as
well because people are always
on the move so that's a nice offshoot of
having the right tools
in place within your organization
awesome
no i appreciate your thoughts on there
rick um thank you
moving this forward in terms of on this
show we always like to take an approach
um
from a digital marketing standpoint yeah
and are there any recommendations that
you've got rick
from a digital outlook that can help
people generate more business that can
help them
win more clients any that have
particularly helped your organization
be it digital be it website based be it
um social based or any particular golden
nuggets or tips of advice that you've
got
for anyone that we might not have
thought about that could be really
useful right now
yeah i don't know how original it is but
i found it increasingly effective with
my clients is the use of linkedin
navigator
as a digital platform it really allows
you to
get more information on the clients that
you want to work with
and gain more connections and networking
and see
how any of your processes are working
whether it be
a digital emailing campaign you might be
utilizing
or any type of research that you need on
organizations to be successful the
linkedin navigator to me is a very
worthwhile tool and you know what
upskilling is so important right now
during these times if sales people or
organizations sam
think that they're going to do what they
did six seven months ago or are
waiting for the pandemic to move off so
we can get back to
normal there is no normal this is the
normal so start looking at those other
digital tools that you talk about
with your clients and organizations as
well including that sales navigator i
find that to be
very effective tool but there's going to
be some upskilling and learning there as
well
sure thing there are only um resources
that you recommend when it comes to
building sales processes and things like
that rick whether it's your own whether
it's others that you've read or seen or
video courses that
people can plug in and tune into you
know it's
um it becomes fairly complex type of
arrangement to put together a winning
repeatable sales
process so you might want to get some
help with doing that we're not experts
in all those different areas that's
something that i've
obtained you know it's interesting sales
enablement is actually a term that came
out
in the 70s by xerox and they figured out
a way to make sure that their sales
people all had the incredible tools that
they need
now yeah back then it was in a binder
form like i had up until you know six
seven months ago as well
and now everything's digital and done
differently but something like this as a
tool
is essential but it takes time to build
and put together and that might be the
time to outsource something like that
and get it done correct for your
organization
rick awesome man really appreciate it
we've covered some great ground
and um thanks very much for sharing your
thoughts with us today
no worries dude appreciate you coming on
you've been listening to sam's business
growth show where we sit down business
leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe who find out their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and their exclusive tips
and insights to help you score
yourselves and scar your business rick
if you can thank just one person
either dead or life having a positive
influence on yourself and your career
who would that be
and why that's a very good question
um i think i'd have to go back to
somebody uh named
doug smith he was my first leader and
manager in the corporate world
and he really encouraged me to
uh be myself as a leader and that's a
really good tip for anybody out there as
well
in leadership make sure that you're
yourself as much as we take
leadership direction from many different
individuals and we become a mosaic of
the experiences that we've had in life
to make us who we are
make sure that you remain true to
yourself your cause
and bring that passion in your
leadership and
you'll have people that want to be
working with you and around your circle
ongoing you know and we got introduced
by a great
gentleman as well simon air so shout out
to simon
um you know who's an incredible sales
trainer and knowledgeable networker as
well so
encircle yourself with those good people
to be successful
nice bit of advice rick please do tell
us more about how everyone can learn
from you
how people can connect with you um any
businesses you'd like to plug and the
best way to get in touch with your good
self
yeah thanks sam appreciate it look if
you do want to learn more about that
reinvent yourself
that i've talked about there's my book
it's available on amazon
you can also pick it up on my website
along with other
information about the services that i
provide a newsletter see some of my
podcasts this great one will be up there
too
and that's at www.rickdenly.com
awesome rick really appreciate you
coming on thanks sam for your time and
your audience it's great to be here and
to everybody
be well be safe cheers dude and if you
enjoyed the show be sure to search
sam's business growth show on wherever
the heck you get your podcast via apple
spotify stitcher youtube wherever for
tons of
interviews with business leaders each
and every week to help you boost your
sales
and make best friend of digital
marketing thanks for tuning in
are you tired of constantly hunting for
new customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because
your website isn't on the first page of
google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach
that brings idle clients straight to you
connect with sam dunning on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation by
webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts